Report
======
With the help of applications like Gephi and Netvizz I was able to make a graph of my network of friends on Facebook. I used Netvizz from within Facebook to capture my network data to be later used to visualize my data. I downloaded the gdf file to my computer, and imported it to Gephi. Here I was able to analyze and visualize my collected social media traffic data, and turn it into a more visual way of seeing this information. 
                                                                                                                              There are many parts that make up the graph, such as nodes, edges and bridges. Nodes are one of the main components; these represent the people I am connected with on Facebook. The edges, are the building blocks of the network, they connect two nodes together. They represent a form of relationship or connection between two nodes (<strong>people</strong>). Another name for them could be links, or connections. So when I imported my data to Gephi it used the information to make a graph with nodes and edges. 
                                                                                                                              
At first the Graph was very clustered and unclear. But once you reduce down the _Degree Range_, after going into ‘Topology’ in _Filters_ you could see it a lot clearer. I reduced it down till I had three different clusters of nodes that where connected in some way. One or two nodes that are also known as a bridge connect them all.  I then changed the layout and shape of the graph by running ‘Force Atlas’ this moved the nodes around to make the graph a more round shape. 
                                                                                                                              
After changing the layout I ran modularity and changed the nodes setting to _Modularity Class_, which filtered the nodes, and divided them into groups using different colors to represent each one. Modularity filters the nodes by degree. Degree is a count of the number of edges that are connected to it. So I used a 1.5-degree, which characterized which of my friends new each other. I then turned on the labels and spread out the nodes to make sure you could clearly read them. I found that when viewing my graph with the white background and black writing for the labels, it still was not as clear as I would of liked, so I tried it with a black background, and white writing. Using the preview tab I was able to see what my graph would like when exported. I felt that the darker background made it a lot easier to read. 
                                                                                                                              
My graph is made up of 3 clusters. The green cluster is Friends that are also friends with my brother. The red cluster is made up of family members that I am friends with on Facebook, and the third cluster, the Blue cluster, is my work friends.  The bridge between my friends that my brother and I share and my family (<strong>The Green and the red clusters</strong>) is my brother Jack Doyle.  He is linked with two of the family members in the red cluster. Then the bridge between the work friends cluster (<strong>blue</strong>) and the family cluster (<strong>red</strong>) is my cousin Mikey Doyle, who is also friends with one of my friends in work. 
                                                                                                                              
Once you are satisfied with your graph and you checked it in the preview tab, you can then export the graph into a PDF file. I found this exercise difficult at first, trying to understand the different terminology and learning how to use Gephi, but once I learnt I found it easy to use and like the visualization of the data, rather than just having a table or list to represent it. 
                                                                                                                        
Other terms that we discussed and came across when making these graphs were _Betweeness centrality_, which is the shortest path within the network, similar to Closeness, which is the measure of the average shortest distance from each node to each other node. And lastly _Eigen Vector Centrality_ takes into consideration not only how many connections a node has but also the degree of the nodes that are connected to it. This graph is also known as an Egocentric network because it represents the network of my personal Facebook friends, in other words I am connected to all of the nodes. 
